# MODEL1006230044: Ueda2001_typeBtrichothecenes

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230044.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230044.git@20140916`

## Usage

Importing the model package.

`import MODEL1006230044 as model`

Get the SBML string from the model

`print model.sbmlString`

If [python-libsbml](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-libsbml) bindings are
installed, the libsbml.SBMLDocument object is also accessible

`model.sbml`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Critical study of and improvements in chromatographic methods for the analysis of type B trichothecenes.**   
Mateo JJ, Llorens A, Mateo R, Jimenez M. _J Chromatogr A_ 2001 May
18;918(1):99-112 [11403460](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11403460) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Various analytical methods used in the analysis of type B trichothecenes
(deoxynivalenol, nivalenol, 3- and 15-acetyldeoxynivalenol) in cereals were
compared and optimised in this work. These methods use either GC-electron-
capture detection (ECD) of trimethylsilyl, trifluoroacetyl and
heptafluorobutyryl derivatives or HPLC with UV or photodiode array detection
of analytes. A new HPLC procedure using fluorescence detection prior
derivatisation with coumarin-3-carbonyl chloride has been also tested. Five
extraction solvents and two solid-phase extraction cartridges (silica,
Florisil) plus a especial clean-up column (MycoSep 225) were compared in order
to obtain the best recovery of the mycotoxins with minimal presence of
coextractives in the chromatograms. The chosen extraction solvent was a
mixture of acetonitrile-water (84:16, v/v). The MycoSep 225 column was chosen
as the best alternative for clean-up of grain samples. For GC-ECD analysis,
derivatisation of analytes with heptafluorobutyric anhydride prior the final
determination was chosen as the most suitable procedure. HPLC-photodiode array
(at 221 nm) analysis was more suitable for determination of type B
trichothecenes than HPLC of the fluorescent coumarin-3-carbonyl derivatives.
Recoveries obtained in spiked corn, rice and wheat are reported. The utility
of the proposed methodology was assayed in cereal cultures of various Fusarium
strains.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Mateo JJ, Llorens A, Mateo R, Jimenez M. (2001) -
version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/dfdbe75f8f7ba13935c05fc4120bd974)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


